# project_gurcan
In this project, we observed the development of AML in the mouse model to gain more information about the transformation of AML. In order to understand the mechanisms underlying the development of the disease and to determine target molecules in AML treatment, proteomics analysis was performed on biological samples obtained from the AML disease (M) and disease-free control (C) groups. The obtained data were deeply analyzed using Python and Jupyter.
At first, packages needed were installed, and data was read and processed. Distribution of the data was checked. According to log transformed values histogram t was observed that the data was normally distributed. In the PCA analysis, The first PC is the highest one but the first 3 PC’s, which have 50-80%, can explain the variability of most of our data. Control (C) and AML (M) conditions showed a high level of separation, which means difference between groups is high. AML 3 has the highest PC and Control 1 and 2 show the lowest PC. Mean values ​​of the groups were calculated. Then, Log2 values ​​were computed to see the fold change. To determine statistical significance, pvalue was calculated using ttest. To get FDR values, FDR adjustment was applied. According to FDR values, 686 proteins with p<0.05 are significantly disregulated. 630 upregulated and 56 downregulated. 
Heatmap was created for disregulated proteins. Since many proteins were upregulated and downregulated. Trashold value = 2 was selected for Log2FC. A heatmap was created for the top 55 proteins that were upregulated and downregulated. 
Then, a volcano plot was created for the upregulated and downregulated proteins. NS (the green dots) refers the proteins with non-significant changes. fdr < 0.05 (blue dots) indicates significantly up- or down-regulated proteins in AML.fdr < 0.05 and Log2FC < -2 & Log2FC > 2 (the red dots) show significantly up-regulated and down-regulated proteins in AML conditions, compared to control, according to threshold value.Since there were too many upregulated proteins, their labels were overlapping each other. Therefore, labels were added for a certain number of proteins. In addition, an attempt was made to add an outline to the dots to determine which dots the labels belong to. Therefore, some corrections were made. However, it did not reach the desired level completely. After the error specified in the last code was fixed, a run was performed, but the process took a long time and did not produce results. 
In conclusion, upregulated and downregulated proteins were determined in the analyzed data due to the AML effect.
